My instinct would be to begin with a short, punchy, two-sentence 
paragraph telling the reader what the paper is about: something along 
the lines of 'Using ultrasound data from speakers of different varieties 
of Italian and Polish, this paper documents a correlation between tongue 
root advancement in the production of voiced stops and longer duration 
of the preceding vowels. I suggest that this correlation points to a new 
articulatory explanation of the so-called voicing effect, whereby vowels 
tend to be longer before voiced than before voiceless obstruents.'

Having told the reader where you're going, the introduction proper 
begins in the next paragraph. Now, the big selling point of your paper 
is a new empirical observation about, and a possible new explanation of, 
the voicing effect, which is one of those big questions that lots of 
people care about and that lots of people have written about. 
Accordingly, it makes good sense to launch the exposition by talking 
about the voicing effect itself, saying something along the lines that 
it is a pervasive phenomenon found in many--though not all--languages 
(cue long list of references) but whose causes remain controversial 
despite decades of research (cue long list of references). Notice that 
this is much better than starting with an explanation of how tongue root 
advancement helps voicing in obstruents, which is uncontroversial and 
risks boring knowledgeable readers.

The natural next move is to run through some of the problems for 
existing explanations. After all, the drawbacks of existing accounts are 
what provides the raison d'être for your paper. You could for example 
begin by noting that an adequate account of the voicing effect has to 
deal with the fact that some languages, like certain varieties of 
Polish, don't have it. This is one of the reasons that led Kluender et 
al (1988) to pursue a perceptual explanation (see their note 4 on page 
163), so that gives you a bridge to the discussion of perceptual 
accounts. You don't need to spend too much time on this, but you do want 
a sentence or two on why they aren't satisfactory. Here the obvious 
weapon in Fowler (1992) (PDF enclosed).

Having cast doubt on the perceptual accounts, you have now given readers 
a reason to contemplate an articulatory account. Help them by explicitly 
laying out the crucial desiderata: the right account should point to 
some articulatory property of voiced or voiceless obstruents that 
favours longer or shorter preceding vowels, but either the property 
itself or the mechanism linking it to preceding vowel duration must be 
language-specific, since the voicing effect itself is not universal.

Now you can introduce the first articulatory attempt by Halle & Stevens 
(1967). After explaining what they claim, you focus on where they go 
wrong: namely, they assume that the action of the glottis in producing 
voicing during a voiced obstruent is different from the action of the 
glottis in producing voicing during a sonorant, but more recent research 
suggests that this is not the case; rather what is special about active 
voicing in obstruents are the adjustments of the supraglottal chamber 
that help to maintain the transglottal pressure differential. (This 
needs to be backed up with references, though.)

If that is the case, then we are inexorably led to look for the cause of 
the voicing effect in some aspect of the articulation of obstruents that 
is (a) supraglottal and (b) language-specific. Et voilà: tongue root 
advancement now immediately suggests itself. Cue the explanation of how 
tongue root advancement helps voicing (boring, but now you've given 
readers a reason to engage) and, ideally, cue references on how the 
amount of tongue root advancement is under speaker control and 
language-specific.

Now that you've prepared the ground, you can solemnly state your 
empirical hypothesis (in D major and with brass fanfares): languages 
that show the voicing effect should show tongue root advancement in 
voiced stops. Now you bring in Italian and Polish, etc etc.

Having placed the major emphasis on the idea that, if we find the 
voicing effect, then we expect to find its putative precursor, i.e. 
tongue root advancement in voiced obstruents, you switch to a modest, 
reasonable tone of voice and concede that, of course, the explanation 
won't be complete without specifying the mechanism that actually leads 
from  tongue root advancement to longer vowels, and that the details of 
the mechanism will determine the extent to which we expect the actual 
magnitudes of the voicing effect and of tongue root advancement to be 
correlated, whether there will be threshold effects, etc. And now you 
can quietly outline your causal proposal in relative safety, having 
staked your major claim on the correlation, rather than on the actual 
causal mechanism.

So, to summarize, here is the skeleton implicit in what I've just said:

• two-sentence summary of what the paper is trying to do
• the voicing effect: pervasive, well-studied, but still not well-understood
• key fact to take into account: not all languages show the voicing effect
• Kluender et al. deal with this by proposing a perceptual mechanism
• but their account is problematic for the reasons Fowler gives
• so we have reason to try the articulatory route
• Halle & Stevens had tried this route early on in the debate, but were 
wrong about the difference between active voicing in obstruents and 
sonorant voicing; difference lies in supraglottal adjustments
• so the right articulatory account will be based on aspect of obstruent 
voicing that is (a) supraglottal and (b) language-specific
• obvious candidate: tongue root advancement
etc etc

Hope this helps. As you can see, there is nothing in this sketch that 
isn't already in your draft, with the possible exception of the 
reference to Fowler (1992); all I've done is rearrange the furniture you 
provide. But, as you can imagine, readers are usually grateful if they 
don't have to climb over the sofa to get into the room.